---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-03-07T04:15:00.740Z'
dateModified: '2016-03-07T01:24:20.493Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-03-07-9daa79c1-985a-49e7-89aa-d0b89b99db15.md
published: true
url: 9daa79c1-985a-49e7-89aa-d0b89b99db15/index.html
_type: Article

---
## INTRODUCTION

God has communicated with His people through symbols since the beginning of time.
The Tabernacle is probably one of the most intense packages of symbols. Every color,
metal, precious stone and fabric had a symbolic meaning. The shape and placement of
objects had symbolic meaning, as did all the vestments of the priests."- Arthur Burk

"A picture is worth a thousand words." So, for fifteen hundred years the Jewish people learned about
God from His ordained "visual aids,"laws, and rituals. God's first great visual aid is Creation itself-the
earth and the heavens. "For since the creation of the world His invisible attributes, His eternal power
and divine nature have been clearly seen, being understood by what He has made." (Romans 1 :20)
God has created us with the desire to explore. Mysteries intrigue us, and make us ask questions.
When we humbly use this desire in seeking our Creator, He gladly leads us into His wonders.
Learning about these mysteries starts with having a childlike desire to ask questions, becoming
teachable, and trusting God to lead us through them. Why are there twelve tribes of Israel? Why
are there twelve major patterns in the stars? (see appendix) Is there a connection? Why are twelve
gems used on the priest's breastplate? Why are there different orders to the tribes? Why are
numbers important? Our banner project is based on asking these types of questions and conveying
them through the use of the patterns, types, and symbols. Through these kinds of visual aids, we can learn about God's promised One (the Messiah),
God's plan of redemption, His government, and the character of the Messiah. We can even learn
about ourselves and who we are in God by seeking God's guidance in understanding how we fit
into His family. Originally designed for the sanctuary at Santa Rosa Christian Church, are twelve colored banners that were created
to reflect God's promises to us through His creation and His Word. (Psalms 96:6,"Honor and majesty
are before Him; strength and beauty are in His sanctuary." Exodus 25:40," Make all things according
to the pattern which was shown to you ... ") The Old Testament is filled with patterns, types, and
symbols concerning the coming of the Messiah, as Hebrews 8:5 states, " ... who serve a copy and
shadow of the heavenly things ... " These are the guidelines for this project.

• **Pattern**: A form or model proposed for imitation. 

• **Type**: A person or thing (as in the Old Testament) believed to foreshadow another
(as in the New Testament.); one having qualities of a higher category. 

• **Symbol**: Something that stands for or suggests something else by reason of relationship,
association, convention, or accidental resemblance; especially a visible sign of
something invisible. 

• **Antitype**: A person or thing represented or manifested by an earlier type or symbol. 

It should be understood that this work was never intended to be a definitive interpretation of the tribes
of Israel. This topic, like much of Scripture, is vast in both breadth and depth. It is our hope that this
effort will provoke a greater sense of the wonder of Scripture and the magnificence of our God.