---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-03-07T04:15:10.919Z'
dateModified: '2016-03-07T01:08:00.561Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-03-07-ed7ff76b-9637-4653-a8bd-4fbfa97a4546.md
published: true
url: ed7ff76b-9637-4653-a8bd-4fbfa97a4546/index.html
_type: Article

---
## Forward

In 1995, I was motivated to show the pastors at Santa Rosa Christian Church what some color
I would do to our sanctuary, which then had an interior color scheme of burgundy, white, and beige. Little did I realize the path this would put me on. At the time I was hosting a home-group meeting that explored how the Lord could use the arts in our lives. Every two weeks we would
meet, discuss, and bring in artistic discoveries of our own. During that time, a very interesting and
sensitive fellow named Will Pilcher sat in on one of our meetings. He overheard me sharing a desire
to see something artistically inspiring created for our church. Will suggested that the goal should
be to reflect God's glory in the sanctuary, as this is God's house. What was done should portray His
character, magnificence, creation, love, and redemptive purpose. For example, consider the tribes
of Israel. God is a father. He founded Israel- from whom came our Savior- through a family," the
sons of Jacob." God describes Himself repeatedly as "the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob." He
showed me the many biblical patterns involving the number "twelve"- twelve patriarchs (Adam
to Noah); twelve sons (tribes) of Jacob; twelve apostles; twelve thousand sealed (divinely protected)
from each tribe (Revelation ?); twelve gates in the New Jerusalem, which is 12,000 x 12,000 furlongs;
twelve constellations in the great heavenly circle/path (Zodiac, Hebrew Mazzeroth); twelve fruits
from the tree of life (Revelation 22:2).
"But,"l said, "Does not the Bible warn against worshiping the heavens?" Yes, but we worship the
Creator, not the creation. God made the sun, moon, and stars. I continued to meet with Will regarding
his studies and all the evidence gathered in literature already published. After looking at this
research, I was amazed at how the Lord has spoken through types and symbols in preparation for
the revealing of His Son. As my curiosity pulled me, and the amount of literature and scriptural
evidence increased, I pursued having banners made depicting these created and biblical patterns.
Will and I presented a proposal to the leaders at Santa Rosa Christian Church, and during the
following seven years, a work in progress developed within the church sanctuary, as each of the
four-by-six-foot banners began to take shape. Through an amazing amount of trial, prayer, and
counsel, the banners were completed in 2002\.
The banners are highly symbolic, and concentrated into visual patterns that can assist the viewer
in their own study. In our fast-paced world of quick fixes, we often want knowledge without the work. God makes it plain that He desires seekers. "And you will seek Me and find Me, when you
search for Me with all your heart." (Jeremiah 29:13) He is seeking those who will worship Him in
spirit and in truth.
This booklet was not intended to explain all the symbolic connections found in the banners and
line them up into some linear conclusion. It is intended to act as a guide to personal study and
prayer with the Holy Spirit, as He would reveal His truths found in creation and in the word of God.
It is my hope that those who are drawn to this study would follow the biblical references and study
notes with prayer, and discover other revelations that He would bring to them. 

-Wesley Bishop